I DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE


Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank  and of having nothing to do  Once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading  but it had no pictures or conversations in
it   and what is the use of a book   thought Alice   without pictures or
conversations  

So she was considering in her own mind  as well as she could  for the
day made her feel very sleepy and stupid   whether the pleasure of
making a daisy chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies  when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her 

There was nothing so very remarkable in that  nor did Alice think it so
very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself   Oh dear  Oh
dear  I shall be too late   But when the Rabbit actually took a watch
out of its waistcoat pocket and looked at it and then hurried on  Alice
started to her feet  for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat pocket  or a watch to take
out of it  and  burning with curiosity  she ran across the field after
it and was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit hole  under
the hedge  In another moment  down went Alice after it 

 Illustration 

The rabbit hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way and then
dipped suddenly down  so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed
to be a very deep well 

Either the well was very deep  or she fell very slowly  for she had
plenty of time  as she went down  to look about her  First  she tried to
make out what she was coming to  but it was too dark to see anything 
then she looked at the sides of the well and noticed that they were
filled with cupboards and book shelves  here and there she saw maps and
pictures hung upon pegs  She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed  It was labeled  ORANGE MARMALADE   but  to her great
disappointment  it was empty  she did not like to drop the jar  so
managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it 

Down  down  down  Would the fall never come to an end  There was nothing
else to do  so Alice soon began talking to herself   Dinah'll miss me
very much to night  I should think    Dinah was the cat    I hope
they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea time  Dinah  my dear  I wish
you were down here with me   Alice felt that she was dozing off  when
suddenly  thump  thump  down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry
leaves  and the fall was over 

Alice was not a bit hurt  and she jumped up in a moment  She looked up 
but it was all dark overhead  before her was another long passage and
the White Rabbit was still in sight  hurrying down it  There was not a
moment to be lost  Away went Alice like the wind and was just in time to
hear it say  as it turned a corner   Oh  my ears and whiskers  how late
it's getting   She was close behind it when she turned the corner  but
the Rabbit was no longer to be seen 

She found herself in a long  low hall  which was lit up by a row of
lamps hanging from the roof  There were doors all  round the hall  but
they were all locked  and when Alice had been all the way down one side
and up the other  trying every door  she walked sadly down the middle 
wondering how she was ever to get out again 

Suddenly she came upon a little table  all made of solid glass  There
was nothing on it but a tiny golden key  and Alice's first idea was that
this might belong to one of the doors of the hall  but  alas  either the
locks were too large  or the key was too small  but  at any rate  it
would not open any of them  However  on the second time  round  she came
upon a low curtain she had not noticed before  and behind it was a
little door about fifteen inches high  She tried the little golden key
in the lock  and to her great delight  it fitted 

 Illustration 

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage  not
much larger than a rat hole  she knelt down and looked along the passage
into the loveliest garden you ever saw  How she longed to get out of
that dark hall and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains  but she could not even get her head through the
doorway   Oh   said Alice   how I wish I could shut up like a telescope 
I think I could  if I only knew how to begin  

Alice went back to the table  half hoping she might find another key on
it  or at any rate  a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes  This time she found a little bottle on it   which certainly
was not here before   said Alice   and tied  round the neck of the
bottle was a paper label  with the words  DRINK ME  beautifully printed
on it in large letters 

 No  I'll look first   she said   and see whether it's marked poison  
or not   for she had never forgotten that  if you drink from a bottle
marked  poison   it is almost certain to disagree with you  sooner or
later  However  this bottle was  not  marked  poison   so Alice ventured
to taste it  and  finding it very nice  it had a sort of mixed flavor of
cherry tart  custard  pineapple  roast turkey  toffy and hot buttered
toast   she very soon finished it off 

                                        

 What a curious feeling   said Alice   I must be shutting up like a
telescope  

And so it was indeed  She was now only ten inches high  and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden 

After awhile  finding that nothing more happened  she decided on going
into the garden at once  but  alas for poor Alice  When she got to the
door  she found she had forgotten the little golden key  and when she
went back to the table for it  she found she could not possibly reach
it  she could see it quite plainly through the glass and she tried her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table  but it was too slippery 
and when she had tired herself out with trying  the poor little thing
sat down and cried 

 Come  there's no use in crying like that   said Alice to herself rather
sharply   I advise you to leave off this minute   She generally gave
herself very good advice  though she very seldom followed it   and
sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her
eyes 

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table 
she opened it and found in it a very small cake  on which the words  EAT
ME  were beautifully marked in currants   Well  I'll eat it   said
Alice   and if it makes me grow larger  I can reach the key  and if it
makes me grow smaller  I can creep under the door  so either way I'll
get into the garden  and I don't care which happens  

She ate a little bit and said anxiously to herself   Which way  Which
way   holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way she was
growing  and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size  So she set to work and very soon finished off the cake 

 Illustration 




II THE POOL OF TEARS


 Curiouser and curiouser   cried Alice  she was so much surprised that
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English    Now I'm
opening out like the largest telescope that ever was  Good by  feet  Oh 
my poor little feet  I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings
for you now  dears  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble
myself about you  

Just at this moment her head struck against the roof of the hall  in
fact  she was now rather more than nine feet high  and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door 

Poor Alice  It was as much as she could do  lying down on one side  to
look through into the garden with one eye  but to get through was more
hopeless than ever  She sat down and began to cry again 

She went on shedding gallons of tears  until there was a large pool all
 round her and reaching half down the hall 

After a time  she heard a little pattering of feet in the distance and
she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming  It was the White
Rabbit returning  splendidly dressed  with a pair of white kid gloves in
one hand and a large fan in the other  He came trotting along in a
great hurry  muttering to himself   Oh  the Duchess  the Duchess  Oh 
 won't  she be savage if I've kept her waiting  

When the Rabbit came near her  Alice began  in a low  timid voice   If
you please  sir   The Rabbit started violently  dropped the white
kid gloves and the fan and skurried away into the darkness as hard as he
could go 

 Illustration 

Alice took up the fan and gloves and she kept fanning herself all the
time she went on talking   Dear  dear  How queer everything is to day 
And yesterday things went on just as usual   Was  I the same when I got
up this morning  But if I'm not the same  the next question is  Who in
the world am I Ah   that's  the great puzzle  

As she said this  she looked down at her hands and was surprised to see
that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little white kid gloves while
she was talking   How  can  I have done that   she thought   I must be
growing small again   She got up and went to the table to measure
herself by it and found that she was now about two feet high and was
going on shrinking rapidly  She soon found out that the cause of this
was the fan she was holding and she dropped it hastily  just in time to
save herself from shrinking away altogether 

 That  was  a narrow escape   said Alice  a good deal frightened at the
sudden change  but very glad to find herself still in existence   And
now for the garden   And she ran with all speed back to the little door 
but  alas  the little door was shut again and the little golden key was
lying on the glass table as before   Things are worse than ever  
thought the poor child   for I never was so small as this before 
never  

As she said these words  her foot slipped  and in another moment 
splash  she was up to her chin in salt water  Her first idea was that
she had somehow fallen into the sea  However  she soon made out that she
was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine feet high 

 Illustration 

Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way
off  and she swam nearer to see what it was  she soon made out that it
was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself 

 Would it be of any use  now   thought Alice   to speak to this mouse 
Everything is so out of the way down here that I should think very
likely it can talk  at any rate  there's no harm in trying   So she
began   O Mouse  do you know the way out of this pool  I am very tired
of swimming about here  O Mouse   The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes  but
it said nothing 

 Perhaps it doesn't understand English   thought Alice   I dare say it's
a French mouse  come over with William the Conqueror   So she began
again   Ou est ma chatte   which was the first sentence in her French
lesson book  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the water and seemed to
quiver all over with fright   Oh  I beg your pardon   cried Alice
hastily  afraid that she had hurt the poor animal's feelings   I quite
forgot you didn't like cats  

 Not like cats   cried the Mouse in a shrill  passionate voice   Would
 you  like cats  if you were me  

 Well  perhaps not   said Alice in a soothing tone   don't be angry
about it  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah  I think you'd
take a fancy to cats  if you could only see her  She is such a dear 
quiet thing   The Mouse was bristling all over and she felt certain it
must be really offended   We won't talk about her any more  if you'd
rather not  

 We  indeed   cried the Mouse  who was trembling down to the end of its
tail   As if  I  would talk on such a subject  Our family always  hated 
cats nasty  low  vulgar things  Don't let me hear the name again  

 Illustration  Alice at the Mad Tea Party  

 I won't indeed   said Alice  in a great hurry to change the subject of
conversation   Are you are you fond of of dogs  There is such a nice
little dog near our house  I should like to show you  It kills all the
rats and oh  dear   cried Alice in a sorrowful tone   I'm afraid I've
offended it again   For the Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as
it could go  and making quite a commotion in the pool as it went 

So she called softly after it   Mouse dear  Do come back again  and we
won't talk about cats  or dogs either  if you don't like them   When the
Mouse heard this  it turned round and swam slowly back to her  its face
was quite pale  and it said  in a low  trembling voice   Let us get to
the shore and then I'll tell you my history and you'll understand why it
is I hate cats and dogs  

It was high time to go  for the pool was getting quite crowded with the
birds and animals that had fallen into it  there were a Duck and a Dodo 
a Lory and an Eaglet  and several other curious creatures  Alice led the
way and the whole party swam to the shore 

 Illustration 




III A CAUCUS RACE AND A LONG TALE


They were indeed a queer looking party that assembled on the bank the
birds with draggled feathers  the animals with their fur clinging close
to them  and all dripping wet  cross and uncomfortable 

 Illustration 

The first question  of course  was how to get dry again  They had a
consultation about this and after a few minutes  it seemed quite natural
to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with them  as if she had
known them all her life 

At last the Mouse  who seemed to be a person of some authority among
them  called out   Sit down  all of you  and listen to me   I'll  soon
make you dry enough   They all sat down at once  in a large ring  with
the Mouse in the middle 

 Ahem   said the Mouse with an important air   Are you all ready  This
is the driest thing I know  Silence all round  if you please  William
the Conqueror  whose cause was favored by the pope  was soon submitted
to by the English  who wanted leaders  and had been of late much
accustomed to usurpation and conquest  Edwin and Morcar  the Earls of
Mercia and Northumbria  

 Ugh   said the Lory  with a shiver 

  And even Stigand  the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury  found it
advisable  

 Found  what    said the Duck 

 Found  it    the Mouse replied rather crossly   of course  you know
what it means  

 I know what it means well enough  when  I  find a thing   said the
Duck   it's generally a frog or a worm  The question is  what did the
archbishop find  

The Mouse did not notice this question  but hurriedly went on   found
it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the
crown How are you getting on now  my dear   it continued  turning to
Alice as it spoke 

 As wet as ever   said Alice in a melancholy tone   it doesn't seem to
dry me at all  

 In that case   said the Dodo solemnly  rising to its feet   I move that
the meeting adjourn  for the immediate adoption of more energetic
remedies  
 
 Speak English   said the Eaglet   I don't know the meaning of half
those long words  and  what's more  I don't believe you do either  

 What I was going to say   said the Dodo in an offended tone   is that
the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus race  

 What  is  a Caucus race   said Alice 

 Illustration 

 Why   said the Dodo   the best way to explain it is to do it   First it
marked out a race course  in a sort of circle  and then all the party
were placed along the course  here and there  There was no  One  two 
three and away   but they began running when they liked and left off
when they liked  so that it was not easy to know when the race was over 
However  when they had been running half an hour or so and were quite
dry again  the Dodo suddenly called out   The race is over   and they
all crowded round it  panting and asking   But who has won  

This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of thought 
At last it said    Everybody  has won  and  all  must have prizes  

 But who is to give the prizes   quite a chorus of voices asked 

 Why   she   of course   said the Dodo  pointing to Alice with one
finger  and the whole party at once crowded round her  calling out  in
a confused way   Prizes  Prizes  

Alice had no idea what to do  and in despair she put her hand into her
pocket and pulled out a box of comfits  luckily the salt water had not
got into it  and handed them  round as prizes  There was exactly one
a piece  all  round 

The next thing was to eat the comfits  this caused some noise and
confusion  as the large birds complained that they could not taste
theirs  and the small ones choked and had to be patted on the back 
However  it was over at last and they sat down again in a ring and
begged the Mouse to tell them something more 

 You promised to tell me your history  you know   said Alice   and why
it is you hate C and D   she added in a whisper  half afraid that it
would be offended again 

 Mine is a long and a sad tale   said the Mouse  turning to Alice and
sighing 

 It  is  a long tail  certainly   said Alice  looking down with wonder
at the Mouse's tail   but why do you call it sad   And she kept on
puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking  so that her idea of the
tale was something like this  

     Fury said to
      a mouse  That
         he met in the
            house   Let
              us both go
                to law   I 
                 will prosecute
                you   
                 Come  I'll
              take no denial 
             We
           must have
        the trial 
     For really
    this morning
    I've
    nothing
    to do  
    Said the
     mouse to
      the cur 
        Such a
        trial  dear
           sir  With
               no jury
                or judge 
                   would
                  be wasting
                our
             breath  
          I'll be
        judge 
       I'll be
      jury  
     said
    cunning
    old
     Fury 
       I'll
       try
        the
         whole
          cause 
          and
         condemn
       you to
    death 

 You are not attending   said the Mouse to Alice  severely   What are
you thinking of  

 I beg your pardon   said Alice very humbly   you had got to the fifth
bend  I think  

 You insult me by talking such nonsense   said the Mouse  getting up and
walking away 

 Please come back and finish your story   Alice called after it  And the
others all joined in chorus   Yes  please do   But the Mouse only shook
its head impatiently and walked a little quicker 

 I wish I had Dinah  our cat  here   said Alice  This caused a
remarkable sensation among the party  Some of the birds hurried off at
once  and a Canary called out in a trembling voice  to its children 
 Come away  my dears  It's high time you were all in bed   On various
pretexts they all moved off and Alice was soon left alone 

 I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah  Nobody seems to like her down here and
I'm sure she's the best cat in the world   Poor Alice began to cry
again  for she felt very lonely and low spirited  In a little while 
however  she again heard a little pattering of footsteps in the distance
and she looked up eagerly 

 Illustration 

 Illustration 




IV THE RABBIT SENDS IN A LITTLE BILL


It was the White Rabbit  trotting slowly back again and looking
anxiously about as it went  as if it had lost something  Alice heard it
muttering to itself   The Duchess  The Duchess  Oh  my dear paws  Oh  my
fur and whiskers  She'll get me executed  as sure as ferrets are
ferrets  Where  can  I have dropped them  I wonder   Alice guessed in a
moment that it was looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves
and she very good naturedly began hunting about for them  but they were
nowhere to be seen everything seemed to have changed since her swim in
the pool  and the great hall  with the glass table and the little door 
had vanished completely 

Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice  and called to her  in an angry tone 
 Why  Mary Ann  what  are  you doing out here  Run home this moment and
fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan  Quick  now  

 He took me for his housemaid   said Alice  as she ran off   How
surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am   As she said this  she
came upon a neat little house  on the door of which was a bright brass
plate with the name  W  RABBIT  engraved upon it  She went in without
knocking and hurried upstairs  in great fear lest she should meet the
real Mary Ann and be turned out of the house before she had found the
fan and gloves 

By this time  Alice had found her way into a tidy little room with a
table in the window  and on it a fan and two or three pairs of tiny
white kid gloves  she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves and was
just going to leave the room  when her eyes fell upon a little bottle
that stood near the looking glass  She uncorked it and put it to her
lips  saying to herself   I do hope it'll make me grow large again  for 
really  I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing  

Before she had drunk half the bottle  she found her head pressing
against the ceiling  and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken  She hastily put down the bottle  remarking   That's quite
enough I hope I sha'n't grow any more  

Alas  It was too late to wish that  She went on growing and growing and
very soon she had to kneel down on the floor  Still she went on growing 
and  as a last resource  she put one arm out of the window and one foot
up the chimney  and said to herself   Now I can do no more  whatever
happens  What  will  become of me  

 Illustration 

Luckily for Alice  the little magic bottle had now had its full effect
and she grew no larger  After a few minutes she heard a voice outside
and stopped to listen 

 Mary Ann  Mary Ann   said the voice   Fetch me my gloves this moment  
Then came a little pattering of feet on the stairs  Alice knew it was
the Rabbit coming to look for her and she trembled till she shook the
house  quite forgetting that she was now about a thousand times as large
as the Rabbit and had no reason to be afraid of it 

Presently the Rabbit came up to the door and tried to open it  but as
the door opened inwards and Alice's elbow was pressed hard against it 
that attempt proved a failure  Alice heard it say to itself   Then I'll
go  round and get in at the window  

  That  you won't   thought Alice  and after waiting till she fancied
she heard the Rabbit just under the window  she suddenly spread out her
hand and made a snatch in the air  She did not get hold of anything 
but she heard a little shriek and a fall and a crash of broken glass 
from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a
cucumber frame or something of that sort 

Next came an angry voice the Rabbit's  Pat  Pat  Where are you   And
then a voice she had never heard before   Sure then  I'm here  Digging
for apples  yer honor  

 Here  Come and help me out of this  Now tell me  Pat  what's that in
the window  

 Sure  it's an arm  yer honor  

 Well  it's got no business there  at any rate  go and take it away  

There was a long silence after this and Alice could only hear whispers
now and then  and at last she spread out her hand again and made another
snatch in the air  This time there were  two  little shrieks and more
sounds of broken glass   I wonder what they'll do next   thought Alice 
 As for pulling me out of the window  I only wish they  could   

She waited for some time without hearing anything more  At last came a
rumbling of little cart wheels and the sound of a good many voices all
talking together  She made out the words   Where's the other ladder 
Bill's got the other Bill  Here  Bill  Will the roof bear  Who's to go
down the chimney  Nay   I  sha'n't   You  do it  Here  Bill  The master
says you've got to go down the chimney  

Alice drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could and waited till
she heard a little animal scratching and scrambling about in the chimney
close above her  then she gave one sharp kick and waited to see what
would happen next 

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of  There goes Bill  
then the Rabbit's voice alone  Catch him  you by the hedge   Then
silence and then another confusion of voices  Hold up his head Brandy
now Don't choke him What happened to you  

Last came a little feeble  squeaking voice   Well  I hardly know No
more  thank ye  I'm better now all I know is  something comes at me
like a Jack in the box and up I goes like a sky rocket  

After a minute or two of silence  they began moving about again  and
Alice heard the Rabbit say   A barrowful will do  to begin with  

 A barrowful of  what    thought Alice  But she had not long to doubt 
for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came rattling in at the
window and some of them hit her in the face  Alice noticed  with some
surprise  that the pebbles were all turning into little cakes as they
lay on the floor and a bright idea came into her head   If I eat one of
these cakes   she thought   it's sure to make  some  change in my size  

So she swallowed one of the cakes and was delighted to find that she
began shrinking directly  As soon as she was small enough to get through
the door  she ran out of the house and found quite a crowd of little
animals and birds waiting outside  They all made a rush at Alice the
moment she appeared  but she ran off as hard as she could and soon found
herself safe in a thick wood 

 Illustration   The Duchess tucked her arm affectionately into
Alice's   

 The first thing I've got to do   said Alice to herself  as she
wandered about in the wood   is to grow to my right size again  and the
second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden  I suppose I
ought to eat or drink something or other  but the great question is
 What 

Alice looked all around her at the flowers and the blades of grass  but
she could not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or
drink under the circumstances  There was a large mushroom growing near
her  about the same height as herself  She stretched herself up on
tiptoe and peeped over the edge and her eyes immediately met those of a
large blue caterpillar  that was sitting on the top  with its arms
folded  quietly smoking a long hookah and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else 

 Illustration 




V ADVICE FROM A CATERPILLAR


At last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and addressed
Alice in a languid  sleepy voice 

 Who are  you    said the Caterpillar 

 Illustration 

Alice replied  rather shyly   I I hardly know  sir  just at present at
least I know who I  was  when I got up this morning  but I think I must
have changed several times since then  

 What do you mean by that   said the Caterpillar  sternly   Explain
yourself  

 I can't explain  myself   I'm afraid  sir   said Alice   because I'm
not myself  you see being so many different sizes in a day is very
confusing   She drew herself up and said very gravely   I think you
ought to tell me who  you  are  first  

 Why   said the Caterpillar 

As Alice could not think of any good reason and the Caterpillar seemed
to be in a  very  unpleasant state of mind  she turned away 

 Come back   the Caterpillar called after her   I've something important
to say   Alice turned and came back again 

 Keep your temper   said the Caterpillar 

 Is that all   said Alice  swallowing down her anger as well as she
could 

 No   said the Caterpillar 

It unfolded its arms  took the hookah out of its mouth again  and said 
 So you think you're changed  do you  

 I'm afraid  I am  sir   said Alice   I can't remember things as I
used and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together  

 What size do you want to be   asked the Caterpillar 

 Oh  I'm not particular as to size   Alice hastily replied   only one
doesn't like changing so often  you know  I should like to be a  little 
larger  sir  if you wouldn't mind   said Alice   Three inches is such a
wretched height to be  

 It is a very good height indeed   said the Caterpillar angrily  rearing
itself upright as it spoke  it was exactly three inches high  

In a minute or two  the Caterpillar got down off the mushroom and
crawled away into the grass  merely remarking  as it went   One side
will make you grow taller  and the other side will make you grow
shorter  

 One side of  what   The other side of  what    thought Alice to
herself 

 Of the mushroom   said the Caterpillar  just as if she had asked it
aloud  and in another moment  it was out of sight 

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute  trying
to make out which were the two sides of it  At last she stretched her
arms round it as far as they would go  and broke off a bit of the edge
with each hand 

 And now which is which   she said to herself  and nibbled a little of
the right hand bit to try the effect  The next moment she felt a violent
blow underneath her chin it had struck her foot 

She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change  as she was
shrinking rapidly  so she set to work at once to eat some of the other
bit  Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot that there was
hardly room to open her mouth  but she did it at last and managed to
swallow a morsel of the left hand bit    

 Come  my head's free at last   said Alice  but all she could see  when
she looked down  was an immense length of neck  which seemed to rise
like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay far below her 

 Where  have  my shoulders got to  And oh  my poor hands  how is it I
can't see you   She was delighted to find that her neck would bend
about easily in any direction  like a serpent  She had just succeeded in
curving it down into a graceful zigzag and was going to dive in among
the leaves  when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a hurry a large
pigeon had flown into her face and was beating her violently with its
wings 

 Illustration 

 Serpent   cried the Pigeon 

 I'm  not  a serpent   said Alice indignantly   Let me alone  

 I've tried the roots of trees  and I've tried banks  and I've tried
hedges   the Pigeon went on   but those serpents  There's no pleasing
them  

Alice was more and more puzzled 

 As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs   said the Pigeon 
 but I must be on the look out for serpents  night and day  And just as
I'd taken the highest tree in the wood   continued the Pigeon  raising
its voice to a shriek   and just as I was thinking I should be free of
them at last  they must needs come wriggling down from the sky  Ugh 
Serpent  

 But I'm  not  a serpent  I tell you   said Alice   I'm a I'm a I'm a
little girl   she added rather doubtfully  as she remembered the number
of changes she had gone through that day 

 You're looking for eggs  I know  that  well enough   said the Pigeon 
 and what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent  

 It matters a good deal to  me    said Alice hastily   but I'm not
looking for eggs  as it happens  and if I was  I shouldn't want
 yours  I don't like them raw  

 Well  be off  then   said the Pigeon in a sulky tone  as it settled
down again into its nest  Alice crouched down among the trees as well as
she could  for her neck kept getting entangled among the branches  and
every now and then she had to stop and untwist it  After awhile she
remembered that she still held the pieces of mushroom in her hands  and
she set to work very carefully  nibbling first at one and then at the
other  and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter  until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height 

It was so long since she had been anything near the right size that it
felt quite strange at first   The next thing is to get into that
beautiful garden how  is  that to be done  I wonder   As she said this 
she came suddenly upon an open place  with a little house in it about
four feet high   Whoever lives there   thought Alice   it'll never do to
come upon them  this  size  why  I should frighten them out of their
wits   She did not venture to go near the house till she had brought
herself down to nine inches high 




VI PIG AND PEPPER


For a minute or two she stood looking at the house  when suddenly a
footman in livery came running out of the wood  judging by his face
only  she would have called him a fish  and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles  It was opened by another footman in livery  with a
round face and large eyes like a frog 

 Illustration 

The Fish Footman began by producing from under his arm a great letter 
and this he handed over to the other  saying  in a solemn tone   For the
Duchess  An invitation from the Queen to play croquet   The
Frog Footman repeated  in the same solemn tone   From the Queen  An
invitation for the Duchess to play croquet   Then they both bowed low
and their curls got entangled together 

When Alice next peeped out  the Fish Footman was gone  and the other was
sitting on the ground near the door  staring stupidly up into the sky 
Alice went timidly up to the door and knocked 

 There's no sort of use in knocking   said the Footman   and that for
two reasons  First  because I'm on the same side of the door as you are 
secondly  because they're making such a noise inside  no one could
possibly hear you   And certainly there  was  a most extraordinary noise
going on within a constant howling and sneezing  and every now and then
a great crash  as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces 

 How am I to get in   asked Alice 

  Are  you to get in at all   said the Footman   That's the first
question  you know  

Alice opened the door and went in  The door led right into a large
kitchen  which was full of smoke from one end to the other  the Duchess
was sitting on a three legged stool in the middle  nursing a baby  the
cook was leaning over the fire  stirring a large caldron which seemed to
be full of soup 

 There's certainly too much pepper in that soup   Alice said to herself 
as well as she could for sneezing  Even the Duchess sneezed
occasionally  and as for the baby  it was sneezing and howling
alternately without a moment's pause  The only two creatures in the
kitchen that did  not  sneeze were the cook and a large cat  which was
grinning from ear to ear 

 Please would you tell me   said Alice  a little timidly   why your cat
grins like that  

 It's a Cheshire Cat   said the Duchess   and that's why  

 I didn't know that Cheshire Cats always grinned  in fact  I didn't know
that cats  could  grin   said Alice 

 You don't know much   said the Duchess   and that's a fact  

Just then the cook took the caldron of soup off the fire  and at once
set to work throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the
baby the fire irons came first  then followed a shower of saucepans 
plates and dishes  The Duchess took no notice of them  even when they
hit her  and the baby was howling so much already that it was quite
impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not 

 Oh   please  mind what you're doing   cried Alice  jumping up and down
in an agony of terror 

 Here  You may nurse it a bit  if you like   the Duchess said to Alice 
flinging the baby at her as she spoke   I must go and get ready to play
croquet with the Queen   and she hurried out of the room 

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty  as it was a queer shaped
little creature and held out its arms and legs in all directions   If I
don't take this child away with me   thought Alice   they're sure to
kill it in a day or two  Wouldn't it be murder to leave it behind   She
said the last words out loud and the little thing grunted in reply 

 If you're going to turn into a pig  my dear   said Alice   I'll have
nothing more to do with you  Mind now  

Alice was just beginning to think to herself   Now  what am I to do with
this creature  when I get it home   when it grunted again so violently
that Alice looked down into its face in some alarm  This time there
could be  no  mistake about it it was neither more nor less than a pig 
so she set the little creature down and felt quite relieved to see it
trot away quietly into the wood 

Alice was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a
bough of a tree a few yards off  The Cat only grinned when it saw her 
 Cheshire Puss   began Alice  rather timidly   would you please tell me
which way I ought to go from here  

 In  that  direction   the Cat said  waving the right paw round   lives
a Hatter  and in  that  direction   waving the other paw   lives a March
Hare  Visit either you like  they're both mad  

 But I don't want to go among mad people   Alice remarked 

 Oh  you can't help that   said the Cat   we're all mad here  Do you
play croquet with the Queen to day  

 I should like it very much   said Alice   but I haven't been invited
yet  

 You'll see me there   said the Cat  and vanished 

Alice had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the house of
the March Hare  it was so large a house that she did not like to go near
till she had nibbled some more of the left hand bit of mushroom 